[Music]
even though they've followed the same
philosophy Marcus Aurelius was an
emperor and Epictetus was a slave the
fact that someone from the lowest class
became one of the greatest stoic
philosophers indicates that stoicism
isn't just for the elite it's for
everyone
part of stoic philosophy is the ability
to keep a calm mind as a matter of fact
the Stoics believe that humans in a
state of flourishing have attained true
happiness which always goes together
with inner peace the works of Epictetus
revealed the importance of tranquility
and that we should value this over
lesser things like money reputation and
even the body he tells us that a calm
mind is not achieved by trying to alter
and control our surroundings it's
achieved by the way we think
the main work of epictetus is called
discourses a collection of lectures that
were written down by a pupil named Arian
this same pupil also compiled the
enchiridion
which means handbook and is quite easy
to read and digest in these sources we
can discover how Epictetus thought about
coping with daily worries stressful
events and hardships so we can keep a
calm mind regardless of what the world
throws at us let's start with the first
one act in accordance with nature when
Epictetus was teaching one of his
students told him that he wanted to go
home because he was sick
Epictetus then sent him home but also
asked his student whether or not he
thinks that with his condition he is
able to improve his moral purpose and
thus him coming to class was the right
thing to do he said go back and tender
affairs at home for if your governing
principle cannot be brought into
conformity with nature no doubt your
paltry piece of land can be made to
conform with it and quote the lesson we
take from this is that we should do what
the current situation asks from us
whatever overcomes us is the way of the
universe there's no need to force things
so when we are sick we shouldn't force
ourselves to do things we cannot do in
many cases the best way to treat an
illness is by accepting it and doing
what's best for us in that given moment
sure Epictetus also stated that illness
is a hindrance to the body but not to
our ability to choose which doesn't mean
that we should force ourselves to
perform our duties which might only make
it worse it means that despite the
physical hindrance we still can choose
to panic or to make rational choices in
a more tranquil fashion when we look at
the pandemic for example we see two
extremes on one end there's panic on the
other end there's this complete
nonchalance
in the first case people are overtaken
by fear and emotion and in this second
case people refuse to see the problem
and perhaps try to make themselves look
tough but acting in accordance with
nature meaning the nature of the
verse as well as our human nature starts
by acknowledging the situation doing
proper research and taking the necessary
measures while keeping a cool head no
matter how we choose to react it's
important to remember that sickness and
death are simply part of nature we all
go someday which brings us to the next
one
watch your judgment anxiety isn't caused
by the environment it's caused by the
position we take towards the environment
we all have our frames of reference and
from that frame we decide what we
tolerate and what we don't tolerate
there's nothing wrong with that
oftentimes it serves a purpose to
discern right from wrong however our
judgments become a problem if they make
us feel entitled to things that we're
naturally not entitled to for example we
can be angry for a lifetime because we
feel entitled to good parents we never
had but epictetus points out that we are
not entitled to a good parent just to a
parent and this is true for many things
so why should we feel the stressed by
the things that are entirely natural I
quote distinguish within your own mind
and be prepared to say it's not the
accident that distress is this person
because it doesn't distress another
person it is the judgment which he makes
about it and quote again this is
important when we face illness or death
these things are nothing new they are
part of nature as much as war and
violence and should rather be approached
with equanimity than strong aversion
moreover when we don't carry strong
desires and aversions we're more capable
of dealing with this situation in a
rational way then when we are led by
irrational thoughts and emotions three
focus less on things outside of your
control at the beginning of the Anker
ideon we'll find a famous dichotomy of
control which is a cornerstone of stoic
thinking it emphasizes that some things
are up to us and others are not and that
we ought to focus on the former and have
contempt of the latter as living
creatures in this universe we have to
deal with what's around us we might
desire to control the outside war
perhaps by money a position of power
physical strength intelligence or
intimidation but at the end of the day
these are just instruments that can
influence but never control and even if
we do manage to control some things
there's always a billion of other things
that slip out of our hands what we do
control according to epictetus is our
own faculty and that's what we should
focus on what happens around us isn't
that important it's more important what
we do with it therefore we can choose to
focus our attention on our own thoughts
and emotions rather than constantly
worrying about stuff we can do much
about anyway this doesn't mean that we
close ourselves off completely it means
that we develop a healthy and difference
towards outside events so that they
won't stress us out too much this is
where amor fati the law of fate comes in
because is there a better way to deal
with the unavoidable than to embrace it
thank you for watching
[Music]
you